When every delegated task gets the premium lane, the decision is easy—but the policy is invisible. Mars Cost Router makes that decision explicit, bounded, and reviewable.
Mars Cost Router is an independent, instruction-driven delegation policy for Codex. Mars is our project brand, not a model, and this project is unofficial: it is not affiliated with or endorsed by OpenAI.
The policy has three lanes. Economy is for bounded inspection. Balanced is for focused implementation, tests, and review. Premium is for risk, uncertainty, security boundaries, or difficult debugging.
Install it from the marketplace repository, add the named plugin, then start a new Codex session. Open it through the plugin browser or at-sign surface. Where skills are exposed, use the Mars Cost Router skill syntax.
There is no hidden runtime hook here. The skill and policy guide the root agent. The root writes the child request with an explicit model, reasoning effort, and no inherited turns. The root still owns scope, integration, and final verification.
Here is the requested payload shape: a generic task name, a self-contained message, the selected model and effort, and fork turns set to none. This request is not proof of the child’s effective route.
For a fixed synthetic read-only series, the selective Terra and Sol policy and the all-Sol high baseline each passed twelve of twelve deterministic checks, with zero observed retries and reroutes.
Child-token totals were nearly flat: three hundred fifty-six thousand one hundred sixteen versus three hundred fifty-six thousand four hundred ninety-four, a recorded minus zero point one one percent. Most of the recorded total difference occurred at the root. Total tokens and median wall time are shown neutrally, not as a savings or quality claim.
The suite is order- and cache-confounded. It does not prove causality, general quality, billing outcomes, or effective routing.
Choose a lane by risk and effort, keep the child task bounded, and verify at the root. Read the policy, evidence, and privacy notes before using it.